---
title: "Navigating a Greener Future: My Opentop Interview Experience"
date: 2023-05-16
permalink: /posts/2023/05/16/opentop/
tags:
  - blue economy
  - ecological transition
---

Greetings, dear readers!

I recently had the pleasure of being interviewed by Opentop as part of their First Startup Acceleration Program. In this interview, I had the opportunity to discuss Canonical Green's innovative proposal for low-risk carbon footprint reduction with Boluda Corporación Marítima.

We (Canonical Green) are a team of experts in mathematics and computer science who joined forces at the University of Cadiz. Our goal is to drive the green transition through data science, offering sustainable and scalable solutions. Our latest focus is on the maritime industry, where reducing carbon footprints is crucial.

The maritime industry, including ports, faces the challenge of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. With the International Maritime Organization's target to reduce emissions by 40% by 2030, innovative solutions are needed. That's where Canonical Green comes in.

Our flagship solution, Green Navigation, is like an eco-friendly Google Maps for the sea. It optimizes maritime routes based on user preferences—whether it's speed, safety, or environmental friendliness. By considering oceanographic conditions and vessel parameters, Green Navigation helps vessels minimize fuel consumption and emissions while reaching their goals.

Our time with Opentop has been incredibly positive. Working closely with the Fundación Valenciaport and industry leaders has provided valuable insights into the needs and challenges of the maritime sector. Opentop's tailored incubation and acceleration services have significantly improved our entrepreneurial skills.

One of the highlights of our Opentop experience has been the interaction with mentors and fellow entrepreneurs. Their perspectives, feedback, and advice have been invaluable. Additionally, being located in a prominent Mediterranean port has opened doors to potential collaborators and clients.

If you're a startup in the maritime or port sector looking to grow your business, Opentop is the ideal place for you. With exceptional support, personalized mentoring, networking opportunities, and access to a vast network, Opentop equips startups with the tools they need to succeed.

For more details about my interview and Canonical Green's solutions, I encourage you to read the original interview [https://opentop.es/2023/05/16/canonical-green-low-risk-carbon-footprint-reduction/].

Thank you for joining me on this exciting journey, and stay tuned for more updates.

Note: To read the full interview, please visit [https://opentop.es/2023/05/16/canonical-green-low-risk-carbon-footprint-reduction/].